Different data sources in the game
industry include using your finger.
What type of device is coming from?
The amount of headsets.
It's pretty much infinite,
as far as the number of ways we
can bring data in from the game.
And it could be joystick or mouse,
keyboards, there's lots of ways
as well as what happens inside
the game itself as far cars or
the driving, tires,
flying machines, anything.
The volume of data,
it really depends on the type of game and
how often they want to send the data in.
How many types of events they've tagged
and how many users are playing the game.
So if you have a user, you've 5 million
users that are playing your game and
you're tapping and
you're tracking each tap of the screen,
of where they went or each click of
the mouse as they were using it,
you're going to get
a lot of volume of data.
And so
you need to be prepared to bring in a lot
of different data very, very quickly.
As far as the variety of data, it depends.
You have round pizzas and
you have round tires.
I mean, they're completely different.
They're both round, but there's different
ways that you're going to want to know how
many pepperoni are on one pizza and
how many lug nuts go on a tire.
So the variety is really unlimited,
as well.
It really just depends on each game.
So, you have to be prepared to
bring in all kinds of data.
Touch data, wheel data,
track speeds, anything.
And if you put taxonomy together that
you can define as an example of verb,
object, location, value and any number
of other sources, then you can basically
track anything you want as long as they
all fall into the same kind of buckets.
And the buckets can be different
sizes based on the type of events.
They don't all need to be 4,
some can be 2, some can be 20,
it doesn't really matter.
The modeling challenge has really come
down to who designs the structure at which
you store your data and
how you want to retrieve that data.
Those kind of of storage and
retrieval models are very, very important,
because what it really
comes down to is speed.
You can record a lot of data and
it can take you five years to query it,
it doesn't really do you any good.
So you need to make sure you plan for
reporting speed, because that's ultimately
what within the organisation needs is
the ability to report on it very quickly.
The management challenges really come
down to trying to figure out what data to
store.
A lot of times we go into various
companies and you've got producers sitting
across the hall from designers, and
they don't even know each other.
They don't realize what they want and
the programmer says,
I'm going to put these events in and the
product manager who wants to figure out
how many times somebody crashed says,
well, I need these events in.
So unless they're communicating, you're
going to get the wrong type of data.
So the management challenge is trying
to make sure everybody communicates,
they decide on the taxonomy and
the structure and
then we can go forward with tagging and
getting in the entire game working.
We process, stayed in two main ways.
One is streaming data.
One is batched or scheduled data.
Streaming data has scripts that run
instantly the minute the data arrives.
And so as the data come in,
it gets processed and
then stored In a reporting format.
So they can easily generate reports
up to the second very, very quickly.
Batch processing data really depends on
the type of data where it's coming from.
Most of the time when we download
data from iTunes or YouTube or
something like that, it comes in a CSV or
a very similar format.
There's not really a lot of
processing we need to do.
It's more of ingesting that data.
There are processes we need to run
with some type of batch data, but
most of the batch data we
receive comes in as a CSV or
other similar already processed formats.
So typically, while you can do processing
in both modes most processing typically
happens with the streaming real-time data
than it does with offline batch data.
We actually didn't use any
technology in the a big data space.
We created our own, from scratch.
What we did was we decided
what kind of model we wanted.
How we were going to store data?
How we were going to retrieve data?
And ultimately,
how we were going to reduce the data?
Because the more and more and more data
you have, the slower it is to actually do
a query, because you have to look through
all the different pieces of data.
A lot of databases solve this problem for
you, but they were really doing it in more
generic way were we needed
something very specific.
So we started from scratch building our
own data storage and retrieval, and
reporting from the ground up.
When it came to scalability,
it was really about designing the parts of
the system that could be
independently scaled.
So if data's coming in in real-time,
we send that into what we call a gateway.
And the gateway could be three gateways,
let's say.
But if the data starts
getting over loaded,
I just have to add another gateway.
And a gateway is just this little
light layer that just receives data,
passes it on and goes back to it's job,
doesn't do anything else.
So it can receive a lot
of data very quickly, but
also I can just add another one.
And it just automatically logs in and
adds itself to a list and
now the data is being distributed
amongst four gateways instead.
Query engine is the same way.
When you're doing queries to try
to get data out of the system, so
you can build reports.
If I need more query engines,
because people are doing more reporting,
we can add more query engines.
So, the idea behind scalability is
trying to break the services up into
the type of services that
they most make sense.
So that if you need to,
you can add just the service without
rebuilding the entire platform.
My advice for people designing systems for
big data is to first,
try to understand what
you want to accomplish.
What's the goal?
I mean, we're going to ingest everything
and we're going to report on everything.
It's not really something that you can
achieve without some special thought.
If you're going to focus on,
your area's going to be say gardening,
then look at what kind of things you're
going to do in the gardening area and
try to focus on what that
type of data is going to be.
This isn't going to restrict you
to only being a gardener, but
it is going to give you focus
on how to design your system, so
that they're actually going to work for
you.
You're going to continually evolve your
systems, add more things to them and
grow them.
I wouldn't suggest starting with
an unlimited variety of options and
hoping you're going to
solve all the problems.
Start with the goal of what your current
solution is and expand from there.
Data can be fun, but
it can also be overwhelming.
So, try to keep the data in mind
without keeping the world in mind and
I think you'll be just fine.